1. Create a budget first with alerts.

EC2 -----------

EC2 is basically elastic compute cloud.
It is also referred to as Infrastructure as a Service.
In general terms, it is basically a remotely localted laptop that you will be using to run softwares like you do in your laptop.

Virtual machine - EC2
Virtual Drives (Storing data) - EBS
Distributing load across machines - ELB
Scale service using Auto Scaling Group - ASG


--------


Constituents of EC2 :

Firewall : Security Group
OS : Linux/Windows/Mac
Compute processing : Cores (also referred to as vCPU in specification)
RAM : also referred to as memory

Storage space :

	- Network attached storage (EBS & EFS)
	- Hardware (EC2 instance storage)
	
Network Card (What is network card : https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=778rS_FMb10):
	- Speed of card, public IP address (to connect to internet)

Bootstrap script : It gets executed only once (at first launch) with root permission.
				   Also called EC2 user data which is used to install dependent softwares, updates etc.	
				   You get this option under heading 'User Data' when creating EC2 instance.
				   
				   
AMI (Amazon Machine Image) is basically underlying OS in EC2. 			

After re-starting EC2 instance, public IP may change but private IP of EC2 instance will remain same.


------

AWS has following naming convention :
m5.2xlarge

m : instance class (e.g. General purpose, Compute optimized, Memory optimized)
5 : hardware generation (AWS improves it over time)
2xlarge : size of instance (memory, bandwidth etc)


-------


Security Groups :

They control access to EC2 instance over network or we can say it is firewall to EC2.

Inbound rules : IPs(and/or ports) or security groups that are allowed to interact with EC2.
Outbound rules : EC2 instance output to internet.

EC2 and security group has many to many relationship.

security group is confined to region/VPC.
If region is changed then a new security group needs to be configured.

Maintain separate security group for SSH.

-------

Classic ports to know :

22 : SSH (Secure Shell)
21 : FTP (File Transfer Protocol)
22 : SFTP (Secure File Transfer Protocol over SSH)
80 : HTTP (access unsecured websites)
443 : HTTPS (access secured websites)
3389 : RDP (Remote Desktop Protocol) - log into windows machine.


If there is a timeout while connecting to EC2 then it's 100% because of security group configuration.
