----------------------------------------------- Doubts -------------------------------------------------
1. What exactly is an event ?

2. How to decide which server to communicate to as Kafka always runs in a cluster ?

3. How Kafka achieves exactly once processing of events ?

4. Difference between topic and queue ?

5. How exactly topics are partitioned and how it is organized in a broker ?
   -- Also, what exactly is the broker ?
   
6. What are SATA drives and RAID structure ?   

7. What is multi tenancy ?

8. What is Zero copy optimization?
-- https://developer.ibm.com/articles/j-zerocopy/

9. How long polling actually works and it's advantage over short polling i.e. normal http requets ?

10. What if different producers are storing message on the same partition and different consumers are reading from the same partition?
    How is relevant event delivered to the consumer in that case?
	
11. Where does broker stores the message?
"When publishing a message we have a notion of the message being "committed" to the log".	What is a log?

12. How is Kafka streams different ?

13. How 2 phase commit actually works?

14. Kafka does not handle so-called "Byzantine" failures in which nodes produce arbitrary or malicious responses (perhaps due to bugs or foul play).

15. Understand the difference between kraft and zookeeper ?

16. When to use Kafka and when not to use Kafka?

17. Who decides which consumer will be part of which consumer group and based on which logic ?


18. Leader Election in Kafka broker?
-- when we say "leader election," we imply electing the leader of a partition.
The component responsible for leader election is Kafka's controller, which is a special broker elected among all Kafka brokers.

Partition leader election:

The controller checks the list of in-sync replicas (ISR) for each partition.
It picks the first broker in the ISR list as the leader.
This info is propagated to all brokers, so they know which broker is the leader for each partition.


Each VoteRequest(term, candidateId, lastLogIndex, lastLogTerm) includes:

Candidate’s ID
Term number : It is basically a monotonically increasing number that determines the count of number of times "leader" election has taken place.
Index and term of the candidate’s latest log entry (from the metadata log)

Other brokers use this info to decide whether the candidate is caught up enough to be the leader i.e. candidate which is most up to date deems fit to be the leader.

🔹 In Raft:
The lastLogIndex is the index of the last entry in the broker’s metadata log (i.e., the replicated log of metadata changes).

🔹 In Kafka KRaft:
The metadata log is stored in an internal log (@metadata), where each entry represents a change in the Kafka cluster’s state — such as:

Topic creation
Broker registration
ISR updates
Partition leadership changes

Each entry has:
An index (like a log offset in Kafka)
A term (when it was written)
The record/data


So, leader election process is as follows :

1. Newly joined broker waits for heartbeat message from the current leader.
If it doesn't get the message within the stipulated time then it calls for an election assuming that leader is not present.

2. All brokers sends a VoteMessage as described above to all the other brokers and the one who gets the majority vote becomes the leader.

3. Broker votes in favor of another candidate if :
   - Broker has not voted in the current term.
   - Broker's lastLogIndex is less than the candidate's lastLogIndex i.e. candidate is more upto date.
   
4. Each broker is aware of all the other brokers because of a static configuration in Kafka's server.properties
  # The connect string for the controller quorum
controller.quorum.voters=1@localhost:9093

This needs to be setup before starting up Kafka instances.   


---------------------------------- XXXX ----------------------------------------------------------------


Event streaming is the practice of capturing data in real-time from event sources like databases, sensors, mobile devices, 
cloud services, and software applications in the form of streams of events; 
storing these event streams durably for later retrieval.


Kafka is basically a client server communication.

Server : It runs as a cluster of one or more servers with some of the servers forming a storage layer known as brokers.

Note: Kafka connect can be used to import data as event streams from existing systems like relational databases etc.

Client : Basically the process that reads from (Consumer) or writes to (Producers) kafka servers.


event is basically the record or message that is sent to the Kafka.

each event contains the following attributes :
key, value, timestamp.

Important : Kafka provides various guarantees such as the ability to process events exactly-once.

Events are stored in topic which can have multiple producers/consumers writing to and reading from it.
Think of topic as folders and event as files within a folder.

Events in a topic can be read as often as needed—unlike traditional messaging systems, events are not deleted after consumption.
It is defined by user for how long topic needs to store events.

Topics are partitioned i.e. it is divided into different buckets which can be present on different brokers (servers with whom client connects).
Broker contains different partititions of different topics.

New event is appended to one of the partitions of a topic and events with same key will always be appended to the same partition of a topic. 
Kafka is append only write so consumers read the events in the same order as it was written. 

Topics are replicated across different brokers to ensure reliability (fault tolerant and highly available).

--- How Kafka events are stored in the topic :

All data is immediately written to a persistent log on the filesystem without necessarily flushing to disk. 
In effect this just means that it is transferred into the kernel's pagecache.

Kafka uses append writes to disks.
Though they have poor seek performance, these drives have acceptable performance for large reads (read ahead) and 
writes and come at 1/3 the price and 3x the capacity.

A modern operating system provides read-ahead and write-behind techniques that prefetch data in large block multiples 
and group smaller logical writes into large physical writes.

Since, Kafka uses disks directly for storage so it can store data for longer as hard disks are way cheaper than in memory alternatives.

Apart from append only writes that uses underlying disks to the fullest, Kafka is efficient because it solves two bottlenecks :

1. Too many I/O operations i.e. write operations.

-- This is solved by batching multiple operations together which saves on the latency of fetching the data between process and disk.

2. Too many copy operations to transfer data from producer to consumer.

-- Zero copy is used here to copy directly from OS pagecache to NIC buffer instead of copying the data in broker's 
   different queues (i.e. user space - read my article on how client server communication works).
   
   This by pass of broker is feasible because a standard binary format is used to encode events.
   Thus, there will not be any message transformation needed at broker level.
   
   
End-to-end Batch Compression :

Kafka producer groups multiple messages together in a batch and compresses it in a format like GZip etc. and send it to broker (server).
The broker decompresses it to do sanity checks and then again compress it and store it in compressed format in disk which is sent to consumer which 
decompresses the data to process it.

-- Producer :

Producer sends data to a particular partition of a topic which will be on the leader broker as Kafka starts with a cluster of brokers/servers.
Producer usually does an api call to retrieve the information of which is the leader broker for the particular partition that it is interested in.

Producer controls which partition it publishes messages to which can be random or based on a well defined logic (called semantic partitioning function).
Example if semantic partitioning function is based on userId then all requests will be hashed based on the userId and will be directed to the resultant 
partition.

Also, requests are batched to store multiple messages/events into one request which may increase latency but also yields to a better throughput.
This batching logic is configurable.

-- Consumer :

Consumer "fetches" data from the broker i.e. pull model (Apache Flume, follow a very different push-based path where data is pushed downstream).

Consumer specifies the offset from which it needs to start reading messages on the partition.
Thus, it can rewind and re-read the same messages.

Consumer uses long polling.

-- Consumer Position :

Our topic is divided into a set of totally ordered partitions, 
each of which is consumed by exactly one consumer within each subscribing consumer group at any given time. 
This means that the position of a consumer in each partition is just a single integer, the offset of the next message to consume.

This makes the state about what has been consumed very small, just one number for each partition.

Kafka’s group management protocol allows group members (e.g. consumer groups) to provide persistent entity ids. 
Group membership remains unchanged based on those ids, thus no rebalance will be triggered.


-- Message Delivery Semantics (Revisit tomorrow)

Kafka provides atleast one delivery semantics.

Since 0.11.0.0, the Kafka producer also supports an idempotent delivery option which guarantees that resending 
will not result in duplicate entries in the log. 
To achieve this, the broker assigns each producer an ID and deduplicates messages using a sequence number 
that is sent by the producer along with every message.

The consumer's position is stored as a message in an internal topic, so we can write the offset to Kafka in the same transaction 
as the output topics receiving the processed data.


Important :::

Although Kafka provides atleast once delivery semantics.

but 

Kafka supports exactly-once delivery in Kafka Streams, and the transactional (committing offset and data on consumer) producer and the consumer 
using read-committed isolation level can be used generally to provide exactly-once delivery when reading, 
processing and writing data on Kafka topics.


-- Transaction :

To achive exactly once in Producer Consumer setting, following needs to be followed :

There are three key aspects to exactly-once processing using the producer and consumer, which match how Kafka Streams works.

The consumer uses partition assignment to ensure that it is the only consumer in the consumer group currently processing each partition.
The producer uses transactions so that all the records it produces, and any offsets it updates on behalf of the consumer, are performed atomically.
In order to handle transactions properly in combination with rebalancing, it is advisable to use one producer instance for each consumer instance. 
More complicated and efficient schemes are possible, but at the cost of greater complexity.


-- Replication

Kafka replicates the log for each topic's partitions across a configurable number of servers (you can set this replication factor on a topic-by-topic basis). 
This allows automatic failover to these replicas when a server in the cluster fails so messages remain available in the presence of failures.

The unit of replication is the topic partition. 
Under non-failure conditions, each partition in Kafka has a single leader and zero or more followers. 
The total number of replicas including the leader constitute the replication factor. 
All writes go to the leader of the partition, and reads can go to the leader or the followers of the partition.
Typically, there are many more partitions than brokers and the leaders are evenly distributed among brokers. 
The logs on the followers are identical to the leader's log—all have the same offsets 
and messages in the same order (though, of course, at any given time the leader may have a few as-yet unreplicated messages at the end of its log).

Followers consume messages from the leader just as a normal Kafka consumer would and apply them to their own log.

In Kafka, a special node known as the "controller" is responsible for managing the registration of brokers in the cluster. Broker liveness has two conditions:

Brokers must maintain an active session with the controller in order to receive regular metadata updates.
Brokers acting as followers must replicate the writes from the leader and not fall "too far" behind.

We refer to nodes satisfying above two conditions as being "in sync".
The leader keeps track of the set of "in sync" replicas, which is known as the ISR.

For example, if a follower dies, then the controller will notice the failure through the loss of its session, and will remove the broker from the ISR.

For KRaft clusters, an active session is maintained by sending periodic heartbeats to the controller. 
If the controller fails to receive a heartbeat before the timeout configured by broker.session.timeout.ms expires, then the node is considered offline.

replica.lag.time.max.ms configuration :
Replicas that cannot catch up to the end of the log on the leader within the max time set by this configuration are removed from the ISR.

We can now more precisely define that a message is considered committed when all replicas in the ISR for that partition have applied it to their log. 
Only committed messages are ever given out to the consumer.
i.e. Kafka follows synchronous replication.

If a less stringent acknowledgment is requested by the producer, 
then the message is committed asynchronously across the set of in-sync replicas if acks=0, 
or synchronously only on the leader if acks=1. Regardless of the acks setting, 
the messages will not be visible to the consumers until all the following conditions are met:

The messages are replicated to all the in-sync replicas.
The number of the in-sync replicas is no less than the min.insync.replicas setting.

If you choose the number of acknowledgements required and the number of logs that must be compared to elect a leader 
such that there is guaranteed to be an overlap, 
then this is called a Quorum (basically, meaning number of alive servers to ensure consistency is maintained).

One of the ways to improve latency is to follow majority vote approach i.e. leaders will commit to atleast more than 50% of the 
replicas before confirming to the client that message is successfully committed.
However, Kafka doesn't follow this approach.

Kafka takes a slightly different approach to choosing its quorum set. Instead of majority vote, 
Kafka dynamically maintains a set of in-sync replicas (ISR) that are caught-up to the leader. 
Only members of this set are eligible for election as leader.

Our protocol for allowing a replica to rejoin the ISR ensures that before rejoining, it must fully re-sync again even if it lost unflushed data in its crash.

-- Availability and Durability Guarantees

When writing to Kafka, producers can choose whether they wait for the message to be acknowledged by 0,1 or all (-1) replicas.
By default, when acks=all, acknowledgement happens as soon as all the current in-sync replicas have received the message. 
For example, if a topic is configured with only two replicas and one fails (i.e., only one in sync replica remains), 
then writes that specify acks=all will succeed.


-- 4.9 Log Compaction

Log compaction gives us a more granular retention mechanism so that we are guaranteed to retain at least the last update for each primary key 
(e.g. bill@gmail.com). 
By doing this we guarantee that the log contains a full snapshot of the final value for every key not just keys that changed recently. 
This means downstream consumers can restore their own state off this topic without us having to retain a complete log of all changes.

The idea is to selectively remove records where we have a more recent update with the same primary key. 
This way the log is guaranteed to have at least the last state for each key.
This retention policy can be set per-topic, so a single cluster can have some topics 
where retention is enforced by size or time and other topics where retention is enforced by compaction.

Unlike Databus, Kafka acts as a source-of-truth store so it is useful even in situations where the upstream data source would not otherwise be replayable.


Compaction also allows for deletes. A message with a key and a null payload will be treated as a delete from the log. 
Such a record is sometimes referred to as a tombstone. This delete marker will cause any prior message with that key to be 
removed (as would any new message with that key), 
but delete markers are special in that they will themselves be cleaned out of the log after a period of time to free up space.

The compaction is done in the background by periodically recopying log segments.
I think it is combining various fragments after marking the log sections to be deleted.


Rules Used by Sticky/CooperativeSticky:
Try to balance partitions across consumers

Keep previous ownership (when possible) to minimize movement (important only in rebalances)

Assign a partition to only one consumer

Respect topic subscription (only assign partitions of topics the consumer subscribed to)


--- When to use Kafka and when not to use Kafka ?

When to use :

- Write heavy workflows.

- Heterogeneous downstreams with different use cases and complexity of processing.
  (Distributed and stateless.) 
  
- Ordering Guarantees ( SQS does it with FIFO queue configuration based on MessageId )  


Not to use :

- When system is not expected to encounter too many writes.

- Homogenous downstreams.

- Broadcasting service.


To read the contents of Kafka partition in human readable format:

./kafka-dump-log.sh --files /tmp/kraft-combined-logs/movie-1/00000000000000000000.log --print-data-log