--------------------------------- Doubts ---------------------------------------------------
1. Understand ARP request and how is it used to connect to NAT ?
2. Is NAT actually a router only or something else?


--------------------------------- XXXXX  ----------------------------------------------------


WebRTC is acronym for Web Real Time Communication.


---- Why is it needed ?

It is solving for the use case where peer to peer communication can be used to exchange video and audio (Media)
in an efficient, standardized way with minimal latency. 

The way to standardized way is to create a protocol for it.

session is basically a bunch of Strings.
Also called SDP (Session Description Protocol).

This session information is transferred between two piers via ways such as Http fetch, Web Socket, QR scan, Whatsapp etc.

As part of sending session information, shortest path is identified between two peers.


---- WebRTC Demystified :


-- NAT (Network Address Translation) :

Note: Client is always behind NAT and not directly connected to the Internet.

- Router has a public IP address and a private IP address (which is called a Gateway). 

- Let's say Client wants to connect to a public server then following are the steps that are performed.

1. Client creates an IP packet with source as it's address and destination as server's address.
2. It performs Subnet masking to identify whether server is within the same network or not.
3. If server is not in the same network then it needs to connect to NAT or the gateway.
4. Client interacts with the NAT by creating an ARP request specifying the MAC address of the router.
5. Now, NAT(Router) replaces source Id with it's IP and destination IP remains the same i.e. public server's IP.

6. However, It needs to store the client IP address as well otherwise it will lose the source of packet so it 
	keeps it in the NAT table which basically has following fields :
	
	Internal IP : Client IP
	Internal Port : Client Port
	External IP : Router's public IP
	External Port : Router's Public port
	
	Destination IP : Server's public IP
	
	Destination Port : Server's public Port.
	
	
7. Now, when Server sends back the package to NAT then it refers NAT table and then using Internal IP identifies the client 
   so source would be server's IP and destination would be client's IP after NAT lookup.


-- NAT Translation methods :

Note : Different Vendor router may implement below methods differently.


- One to One NAT (Full cone NAT)   

The above example that we took, External IP address and Port always has a corresponding Internal IP and port entry.
It doesn't care from where the packet is coming from, if packet reaches NAT then it would forward it to Client identified by Internal IP and port.

This method of lookup when deployed is called One to One NAT or Full cone NAT.

- Address Restricted NAT 

Difference between One to One NAT and Address Restricted NAT is that it matches the destination IP with the source IP of packet being 
received from the server while in One to One NAT, we didn't have any constraint on the source IP of packet being received from the server.

If Destination IP matches source IP in this case irrespective of the port then it gets forwarded to Client identified by Internal IP entry.


- Port Restricted NAT 

it's exactly the same thing as Address Restricted NAT with an extra constraint on the destination port as well i.e.

packet coming from the server must have same source IP and port both as destination IP and port in NAT table.	


- Symmetric NAT 

This is the most restricted one.

It matches all 4 things i.e. packet coming from the server must have destination IP and port as External IP and port.
Also, source IP and port must match Destination IP and port in NAT table.

Prior to this, we only had constraints on destination IP and/or Port but never on External IP and port in NAT table.

Note : Symmetric NAT doesn't work with WebRTC. (We will know the reason shortly). 