---------------------------------------- Doubts --------------------------------------------------------
1. Understand how routing happens between Load balancer in public subnet with EC2 instance in private subnet.

2. What exactly is referred to as 3 tier architecture?
    - I think it's webserver, application server and DB server but verify.


---------------------------------------- XXXXX  --------------------------------------------------------



1. Region has availability Zones (AZ).

2. VPC is Virtual Private Cloud which encompasses Availability Zones (AZ).
	-- We can better understand it as private address space allocated to our use case.
	
3. EC2 machine is launched in a particular AZ within a subnet i.e. each EC2 machine belongs to a subnet.

4. VPC is connected to the Internet using Internet Gateway.

5. Public Subnet : We can communicate with EC2 instances in Public Subnet directly via Internet Gateway i.e. without any pem files etc.
   Private Subnet : We can't communicate with EC2 instance in Private Subnet directly.
   
6. Scope of subnet is AZ level.

7. Since, we can't communicate with private subnet directly from the internet, we leverage Application load balancer to do so.
   Load Balancer would be in Public Subnet.
   
8. NAT (Network Address Translation) Gateway is used for the following use case :

   1. Let's say our web server is running in a private subnet and it wants to install any software patch from the internet.
   
   2. Being in private subnet it can't directly connect to Internet via Internet Gateway.
   
   3. Here comes the NAT, it routes all outbound traffic from private subnet to Internet Gateway which in turn routes to Internet.
      NAT is also in public subnet.
	  

9. VPC Peering Connection is the service provided by AWS which is used for connecting between different VPCs without going through the Internet.
	It flows through AWS managed network and not via Internet.
	It is non transitive i.e. each VPC needs to be connected to other VPCs in order to facilitate connectivity.

10. To mitigate point 9, Transit Gateway was introduced which can be used to connect any VPC to any other VPC through it and also 
    to "On Premise" Network.

11. If S3 and DynamoDb or any other AWS services are not in same region as VPC then traffic is via Internet Gateway.
    To mitigate this issue, we must ensure that these two are in the same region and then leverage VPC Endpoint (Gateway) to connect between them
	without going through Internet Gateway.

12. VPC Endpoint type to be used for S3 and DynamoDb is Gateway while for connecting with lambda, SQS and SNS it must be of type Interface.

13. Private Link service provided by AWS can be leveraged to connect to different VPCs privately over the internet.
    
	Difference between Private link and Transit Gateway/VPC Peering is that with Transit Gateway and VPC Peering, any service can connect with any other service
	directly which is not a very secure way to get things done on the internet.
	
	However, with private link one service (e.g. Load Balancer) can be configured that can communicate with different services and vice versa.
	(more like reverse proxy).
	
14. Route53 is a DNS service.

15. Cloudfront is CDN (Content Delivery Network).

16. We can have VPC Flow logs to troubleshoot VPC connectivity issues.

17. AWS Direct Connect Service can be leveraged to connect from VPC to Corporate Datacenter or On premise Datacenter.	

	
   
      

	

