---------- DNS 

DNS is the program which converts human readable url to it's equivalent IP address.

Terminologies :

1. Domain Registrar : e.g. Amazon Route 53, GoDaddy etc.
2. DNS Records : A, AAAA, CNAME etc.
3. Zone File : contains DNS records
4. Name Server : resolves DNS queries
5. Top Level Domain, Second Level Domain, Sub Domain and FQDN (Fully Qualified Domain Name) as described below :

   http://api.www.example.com.
   
   final . : root
   
   TLD : .com
   Second Level Domain : example.com
   Sub domain : www.example.com
   FQDN : api.www.example.com
   
   protocal : http
   
   
   Flow diagram of DNS resolution :
   
   Let's say we need to connect to www.example.com
   
   Following steps are performed in background :
   
   1. client connects to local DNS Server (created by company or provided automatically by ISP)
   2. Assuming it is first ever access to this domain or is not cached in local DNS server.
   3. Local DNS server makes a call to root DNS (managed by organization called ICANN) and gets in return IP address of DNS which can have information
      about .com domain
   4. Local DNS server now connects to IP address (TLD DNS managed by branch of ICANN called IANA) provided after step 3 and gets IP address of Second Level DNS.
   5. Final call is to Second Level (managed by Domain Registar like Amazon Registrar, Route53 etc) DNS's IP provided in previous step which gives the concerned IP of example.com
   6. This information is cached in Local DNS for further requests
   7. Now, web browser can make a call to corresponding IP address.   
   
   
------------ Route53 :

Route53 is authoritative DNS i.e. users can update the record directly.

Route53 records constitute of following :
1. Domain/Sub domain : e.g. example.com
2. Record type : A/AAAA/CNAME/NS
3. Value : corresponding IP
4. Routing policy : how route53 responds to queries
5. TTL : amount of time the record lives on DNS.


----- Record Types :

1. A - maps hostname to corresponding IPv4 address.
2. AAAA - maps hostname to corresponding IPv6 address.
3. CNAME - maps hostname to another hostname (target is a domain name which must have either A or AAAA record).
4. NS - Name Servers that resolve our DNS queries - basically this is the one that defines routing.
        Alternatively : name servers for the hosted zone.
		e.g www.example.com will be routed to servers with following Ips that can in turn will give you IP for corresponding domain.
		
		
----- Hosted Zone :

A container for records that define how to route traffic to a domain and it's subdomains.
public hosted zone : internet facing. (contains record that specify how to route traffic on internet)
private hosted zone : internal or within VPC.		


------ Record TTL (Time To Live) :

Based on TTL, DNS record can be cached at client's local DNS.   


------ CNAME vs Alias :

CNAME : 

DNS record which maps one hostname to another hostname.
e.g. domain name can be mapped to a load balancer name as we don't want to expose our LB information.

CNAME doesn't work on root domains i.e. www.example.com can be mapped to LB's name but example.com can't be mapped.

Alias :

Maps a hostname to an AWS record.

Alias unlike CNAME work on both root and non root domains.

Alias record is always of type A or AAAA.

Note : we can't set Alias for EC2 DNS name.


since Route53 is for DNS resolution so typically flow can be :

1. web client -> Route53 (for DNS resolution)

2. web client -> target IP obtained from Step 1 (assume target IP is of LB).

3. Step2 -> ALB -> EC2 instances.



--------- Routing or DNS resolution policies :


-- Simple Routing :
	usual DNS to IP mapping.
	
-- Weighted Routing :
    Controls the % of resource that goes to each Downstream.
	Doubt : what if my downstream is ALB ?
	this would be helpful if we have multiple load balancers spanning across regions otherwise it's better to use it as DNS resolver only.
	
-- Latency :
	resolves ALB IP based on lowest latency.

-- Failover :
   It is mandatory to create route53 healtchecks prior to this.
   If active downstream is unhealthy then route53 starts resolving DNS name with passive healthy downstream instance.   
   
-- Geolocation :
   DNS resolution based on client's "physical" location.
   physical location is identified by "location" attribute set during routing policy creation.   



-------- Route53 Healthcheck :

most common use case is to create healthcheck on cloudwatch alarms.

	