------------ Doubt  -------

1. Does git bash have different file system from windows? Is it like a separate virtual machine?
Ans : No, it just a provides a BASH shell and executes those commands on underlying windows file system.

2. What eval command does?


3. We had defined node image as well in docker-compose file so how does it make using nginx useful?

Answer :

------------------------ XXXX ----------------------


--- Deployment Options :

1. Single host deployment :

2. Cluster deployment : Deploying it to group of servers.

Note : To run clusters, we would need orchestration tools like Docker Swarm, Kubernetes etc.

Note : In this course, we would focus on Single host deployment.

--- Getting a virtual private server (VPS) :

There are many options of VPS :

1. AWS
2. GCP
3. Azure
4. Digital ocean etc.


Digital Ocean is used for this course.

--- Installing docker machine :

We would need a tool called "docker machine" that would send our commands to docker server/engine of remote host from our localhost.

--- Provisioning a host :

Using docker-machine, we can provision a host with docker engine installed on it.
Once above process is done, using docker-machine client, we can execute commands on remote provisioned host.

Note: Commands vary according to cloud platform so research when you are deploying something.

Basically, on remote host, we are installing docker engine and starting a process for it.

Note : SSH is used to connect to remote machines.

Note: For production docker-compose file, we must set attribute for restart to be one of values defined in documentation (always etc) for each service defined.


--- Reducing the image size :

For react apps, we must use npm run build command to create optimized bundle for production.

We have something similar for all libraries/frameworks.

Note: We can have single CMD instruction in a docker file.

To optimize, we can do following steps :

1. Instead of using node and installing npm/node etc, we can build the image that would create optimized build locally.
2. We can use nginx image as webserver and copy above build bundle into this server to start a process.


Note : we must create separate docker file for each environment.
while building we can tell which docker file to be used using -f option.

e.g. docker build -t <image_name> -f <corresponding_docker_file> <directory_where_docker_file_is_present>


--- Deploying the application :

Note: using chown command, we can change the owner of file in linux.

So, basically deployment is nothing but what we do locally to start our application process,

we would need to do the same things by connecting it to remote host using SSH, many libraries does the same under the hood so we think it's some magic.

After connecting to remote host, we execute commands on that host.
This gives the impression that we are executing commands locally but actually the commands are getting executed on the server.

Note: image property in docker-compose file can be used to create image name and tag combination.

---- Sample Optimized Docker file for production :

