----- OOPS :

Polymorphism is 3rd essential OOPS principle after data abstraction and inheritance.

Polymorphism is also called dynamic binding or late binding or run-time binding.


Upcasting will include only overlapping members.


----- Method call binding :

Early binding : Compiler attaches method call to method body at compile time.

Late or dynamic or runtime binding : Compiler (or linker) attaches method call to method body at runtime based on the type of object.


late binding helps with extensibility (can be designed using factory method).

Polymorphism is achieved via late binding or dynamic dispatch.

late binding doesn't happen for private and final memebrs and early binding takes precedence
so for private and final members, always base class implementation would be called.

Note : Only ordinary method calls have concept of early and late binding.
       Field/members etc have only compile time or early binding.
	   
	   Static methods also doesn't follow late binding i.e. it is also not polymorphic (which makes sense as it belongs to a class).
	   Constructors are also implicitly static.
	   
	   
----- Order of constructor calls :

1. all base class constructors are called first (which makes sense).	   
2. all members of derived class is intialized. 
3. derived class constructor body is executed.

this is obvious as derived class constructor tends to use all the functionality of it's members as well as base class members.

----- Dynamic binding in constructor :

dyynamically bound method in base class constructor resolves to derived class method which may cause issues as derived class is not completely 
initialized.


----- State Pattern is achieved via composition.

State pattern is basically changing state (object reference) dyynamically.

Composition can be dynamic but inheritance is always compile time.


Important : upcasting doesn't have access to extra methods that are present in derived class and not in base class.


------- Runtime Type Identification (RTTI):

Java checks for type compatability at runtime otherwise raises a ClassCastException.

ClassCastException is during downcast when we try to type cast base class to derived class as it is not safe.