--- Chunking

dividing a task into fundamental building blocks that can be used to solve a bigger problem.
more or less like first principle thinking.

--- How to make chunks :

dividing into multiple components, mastering each component and slowly interrelating each component to solve a bigger solution.

Note: Stress/anger/distraction actually hampers chunking process.

Steps :

1. Make yourself familiar with the building blocks that is needed to solve a problem.

2. Make a roadmap of what you need to do to achieve the results.

--- Actual steps to form chunks :

1. Complete focus pomodoro time without interruption or distraction.

2. Understand the gist of the problem i.e. why of the problem. 

3. Bottom up chunking - basically solving related and unrelated problems to identify the pattern when to use chunk and when not to use it in a
bigger context.

e.g. Window sliding problem - when to use it and when not to use it.


4. Use first principle thinking and feynmann technique.

----- What Satish told ?

1. Read up a little bit, basic concepts and terminologies (basically make yourselves familiar with it).
2. Do some implementation (some lightweight app, you can code along with your udemy instructor etc)

3. Repeat above step in iteration for first 20 hours or so.

4. Explain it to someone/yourselves or write a blog etc (Basically feynmann technique).
   This will allow you to identify the gaps in your learning.

5. After step 4, you can say that you have reached intermediate level.

6. Now, to truly master it, create a knowledge map of what to study and what to discard (Basically, Learning by First principles).

7. As a thumb rule, practical and useful things that you can apply to create something valuable must be your element in knowledge map.

8. Execute/code/debug.   

9. have a sense of curiosity.


NOTE ::: things will take time so have patience and the only way to know how much time is to test in real world.

--- Illussion of competence :

Just reading material is the worst way of learning anything.
Instead read for sometime, then recall/apply it.

Just reading material causes illusion of competence that we know the material but instead it is an illusion.
Feynmann technique to the rescue.

Doing easy stuff creates illusion of competence, it's a mind trick of saving it's energy.

-----------------------
Deliberate practice, pomodoro technique and pareto principle : That's it.
-----------------------



-------------- Seeing the bigger picture or convincing yourself why you are doing it? -------------

3 chemicals :

1. acetycholine : responsible for focus.
2. dopamine : responsible for motivation/reward and pleasure.
3. serotonin : it signifies your behaviour socially. e.g. higher risk taking attribute means lower serotonin etc.


----- 

Overlearning : Repeating things in the same session can hamper the performance rather than improving it.

Solution : Interleaved learning i.e. time spaced learning (e.g. alternate days of the week etc.)
That's because you want your diffused mode of learning to come into action and by law of serendipidity create a magic.


NOTE :::: Don't jump into the water before learning to swim.
In your context, don't directly jump into harder/complex problems before having fundamentals strong.
It takes away more time in the long run.

Solve something with different approach rather than solving too many things.

Interleaving is extra-ordinarily important.
what is interleaving ?
Solving problems of different types in a random order rather than moving ahead in sequential form.
more of like agile process instead of waterfall model.

so just like you do : study two subjects simultaneously.

Einstellung : German word which means with time we dogmatically believe that the way we know is the best way to do that thing.
This is dangerous.