--- Steps :

1. Use metaphors to understand complex topics.
2. Alternate between focussed and diffused modes of learning.

focussed mode is when you are totally focussed on getting the things done.
diffused mode is basically when you are not focussed on the task and let the subconscious mind takes care of it.

3. Learning something difficult will take time and need alternate focussed and diffused mode of learning.

-- Procrastination :

Follow pomodoro technique to beat procrastination.

-- Time separated practice is better than cramming everything at once.
i.e. sufficient days of focussed and diffused mode of learning and practice is better than cramming everything in couple of days.

-- Follow Feynmann's method to practice effectively.


--- Memory (Chunking techniques) :

There are basically two types of memory :
1. Working memory 

   It is the conscious memory that is involved when you are trying to do something in a focussed mode.
   
2. Long term memory 
   
   It is the warehouse that keeps the items practiced in working memory provided it is practiced sufficient amount of time and in a proper way.


Follow spaced time repetition to get things from working memory to long term memory.
Spaced time repetition as the name suggests is practicing or recalling something in a gap of sufficient days.

Research has proved that time spaced learning is much more effective than cramming in a single day.

--- Sleeping :

Sleep is extremely important to remove toxins from the brain.
It is extremely important to sleep for 7-8 hrs a day.

Sleep also strengthens subconscious memory(a.k.a long term memory) so sleeping well is better than thinking about things all night.

--- Few takeaways :

1. Feynmann technique is the ultimate tool.
2. You learn a lot more than active engagement than passive listening.
3. Apply and be useful
4. Think by first principle
5. Exercise is very important for new neurons to be created
6. Collaboration is a better way to come up with better ideas.   