

--

Note that atomicity is defined only from the perspective of the caller of the operation, 
because almost no atomic action—including machine instructions—is truly atomic at all levels of implementation.

At hardware level, the block on disk can be left half-changed, and the controller returns an error code indicating that this happened.

It might even produce a normal return code in spite of the fact that, 
due to some transient error in the controller’s circuitry or a fault in the disk media, the block was not written correctly. 
And if there is a power loss in the middle of the operation, it might happen that the first part of the block is written, but the rest is not. 
In all these cases the outcome of the action is neither all nor nothing, but something in between.

---- ACID :

Atomic : Everything or nothing.

Consistency : Abiding by the constraints of the application.

Isolation : Forms an illusion that application is accessed by single user only.

Durability : Once transaction is committed, information is expected to be preserved in the system even in case of crash.

A flat transaction like what we have used usually is useful to divide our application into chunks of atomic processing units.

Note :

Complex updates are supported by savepoints or by nested transactions, bulk updates are supported by chained transactions or sagas, and so on.
This overcomes the limitation of flat transactions all or nothing approach.


Flat transactions have finally made their way into all commercially available database systems, 
and they are about to be used in operating systems and communication systems. 
The implementation techniques are well-understood, and so are the limitations.

---- Save Point :

A savepoint is established by invoking the SAVE WORK function, which causes the system to record the current state of processing. 
This returns to the application program a handle that can subsequently be used to refer to that savepoint.

 It is worthwhile considering the subtle difference between rolling a transaction back completely (aborting it) 
 and rolling back to savepoint 1. In the first case, the transaction disappears from the scene, 
 gets detached from the program that was running it, and loses all its resources. 
 When rolling back to savepoint 1, the transaction stays alive, keeps its resources, and simply returns to a state where it has not yet done anything.
 
 
---- Compensating Transactions :

Consider the “insert tuple” part of the INSERT statement. It is easy to make this a subtransaction, 
consisting of two leaf-level actions: one action puts the new tuple into a page, 
which involves finding a page with enough free space and doing some other bookkeeping; 
the other action makes the new tuple addressable by putting 
its page number into the entry of some system-internal address translation table that corresponds to its unique identifier.


But how can the transaction be kept isolated if parts of its results are committed early? 
Specifically, how can some other transaction be prevented from deleting the new tuple from its page before T is committed? 
To understand the problem of atomicity in multi-level transactions, let us consider the sequence of updates in bottom-up order.

----- Multilevel Transaction :

Put in terms of the example, having executed the “insert tuple” subtransaction, 
the updates on the data page as well as on the page holding the address table are committed. 
Now everybody else can access these pages, yet nobody can access the tuple t, 
because such an access would have to go through the SQL layer (according to the layering assumption), 
and at that layer transaction T is still controlling the commitment of tuple t.

Assumption is that top layer controls the operations/constraints permissible in below layers.

e.g. lock is at tuple level and not entire table level.


----- Transaction Processing Context :

f(input, context ) -> (output, context)

if context is empty then it is called context-free else it is called context-sensitive.

Basically context is metadata that allows server to manage transactions and process supplied inputs.

e.g. Let's say we have determined a cursor to read through the tuples.
First, the current position of the cursor determines which tuple qualifies as the next one. 
The cursor position is a context that is private to the program containing the read loop

Let us summarize what has been said so far. Programs frequently use information in addition to the input parameters; 
this information is called context and is (potentially) modified every time the program is invoked. 
Context can consist of simple counters (how often the program was called), user-related data (last screen sent), 
information about durable storage (last record read, most recently modified tuple), and much more. 
All programs that read durable storage (a database, for instance) 
and modify it based on what they see become dependent on that context, whether they like it or not.


Continue : 4.11.3 Sagas