------ Scalability :

1. Vertical Scalability : Increase in computation power of machine (or EC2 instance).
						  e.g. upscaling from t2.micro to t2.large
						  Vertical scalability is limited by hardware capabilities.	

2. Horizontal Scalability : Replicating machine of the same configuration (also called elasticity).
							This is what is basically distributed systems.
							We can leverage ASG(Auto Scaling groups) and LB (Load Balancer).
							
------- High Availability :

It means we are running our application in atleast 2 data centers (i.e. 2 availability zones).	
We can leverage ASG Multi AZ or load balancer multi AZ.


-------- Load balancers :

ELB (Elastic Load balancer) is a managed service by AWS.

Load balancers are servers that forward traffic to downstream EC2 servers.
client connects to load balancers endpoint and are not aware of EC2 endpoints.

Health check of EC2 instance is done by using port and a route (e.g. /health and port is 4567 via http protocol).

There are 4 types of Load balancers :
1. Classic Load balancer (deprectaed)
2. Application load balancer - supports HTTP, HTTPS, WebSocket.
3. Network Load balancer - supports TCP, TLS(Secured TCP), UDP.
4. Gateway Load balancer - Operates at layer 3 (Network layer).


---------- Application Load Balancer :
It is layer 7 load balancer.
can incorporate path based, query based, hostname based etc routing.

it is a great fit for microservice and container based application (e.g. Amazon ECS and docker).
Downstream EC2 systems are part of target groups.

1. It has fixed hostname e.g. XXX.region.elb.amazonaws.com 
2. True IP of clients is present in header X-Forwarded-For, port of client in X-Forwarded-Port and protocol in X-Forwarded-Proto.

Doubt : 
Is connection from client to ALB terminated once connection is established between ALB and client or it waits for response from one of EC2 servers?
						
------------ Network Load Balancer :

It is Layer 4 load balancer : Forward TCP and UDP traffic to downstream instances.

Less latency around ~100 ms as compared to ~400 ms in ALB.

Note : It has one static IP per AZ and is used for high performance systems.
not included in AWS free tier.

Unlike ALB, NLB doesn't have associated security groups.


------------ Gateway Load Balancer :

Operates at Layer 3 i.e. Network layer.

It is used for request interception like firewall etc.

Route table in VPC is modified to forward incoming request to GLB and if packet is successfully verified then it gets forwarded to ALB or directly to EC2 instance.


uses the GENEVE protocol on port 6081.


------------- Sticky Session :

Also called as session affinity.

Basically same client must be redirected to same downstream instance via LB.

This is applicable only for ALB (Application Load balancer).

Cookie is used to implement sticky session.

use case : maintain user session.


Cookies are of two types :

1. Application based cookie. : custom - created and set by application and one automatically created by load balancer.

2. Duration based cookie. : created by load balancer.

it is basically if cookie is set at target group level then first request that comes to one of the instances in target group will continue to get request 
from the same client unless duration expires.

----------- Cross zone load balancing :

enabled by default in ALB but diasbled in others.


----------- SSL/TLS fundamentals :

SSL/TLS encrypts traffic between client and load balancer.

SSL : Secure Socket Layer.
TLS : Transport Layer Security.(It is newer version of SSL but everyone still refers to it as SSL).

public SSL certificates are issued by CA (Certificate Authorities). e.g. Symantec, GoDaddy etc. 

SSL certificate expires and needs to be renewed.

Load balancer uses an X.509 certificate.

manage certificate using ACM (AWS Certificate Manager).


------------- Server Name Indication (SNI)

Different clients(browsers) can have different certificates, server needs to understand which certificate to load based on the client.

SNI solves this problem for us.

Formally, It solves the problem of loading multiple SSL certificates onto web server (to server multiple clients/webistes).

It's a newer protocol and requires client to indicate the hostname of target server in initial SSL handshake.


-------------- Deregistration Delay :

For example, if an instance is getting shut down then AWS ELB gives sometime for existing connection to shutdown normally and prevent 
new connections to get established to this EC2 instance.

deafult time period is 5 mins.


-------------- ASG (Auto Scaling Group) :

Goals of auto scaling group are as follows :

1. Scale out (i.e. add Ec2 instance) on increased traffic on website.
2. Scale in (i.e. remove EC2 instance) on decreased traffic on website.
3. Automatically register new instances to a load balancer.

To create an ASG, we have one launch template which asks for corresponding details (mostly related to EC2 attributes).

It is possible to scale ASG in and out based on cloudwatch alarms.

metrics such as average CPU utilization can be used as auto scaling matrix.