EC2 instance storage :


------ EBS Volume :

Elastic Block Store - attached network drive and data persists even after EC2 instance is terminated.

Since, it is attached to EC2 instance over network, there can be some delay.
Also, EBS is confined to Availability Zone.

There are 6 types :
1. gp2/gp3 - general purpose EBS volume and 5 others.

if we need more than 32,000 IOPS then we need EBS of type io1/io2.
In above case, gp2/gp3 will not be of use.

io1/io2 supports multi attachment i.e. same volume can be attached to multiple EC2 instance within same Availability Zone.(upto 16 instances at a time).

EBS IOPS peaks at 16,000 IOPS or equivalent 5334 GB

------- EBS snapshot :

Snapshot or backup of EBS at any point of time (it is recommended to detach it from EC2 instance before taking snapshot).
EBS snapshots can be attached to EC2 instance of different availability zone as well.
Also, EBS snapshot can be stored in different region.

Configure recycle bin configuration to have protection from accidental deletion.


-------- AMI :

Amazon Machine Image : can be customized as well.

Main use case of AMI is as following :

Create an EC2 instance, on first time start, it executes user data script that would contain all softwares to be installed etc.

once this is up which means softwares are successfully installed then stop EC2 instance and create an AMI out of it.

created AMI will have software already installed.

we can create EC2 instance out of this AMI which doesn't need to install software again on startup, thus faster boot time.

AMI is also bound to region.


---------- EC2 instance store :

EBS is network attached so has limitations and relatively slow.

EC2 instance store is disk on the physical server where EC2 instance is present.

Main problem with EC2 instance store is : It is ephemeral i.e. if EC2 instance is stopped then data stored would be erased.
It is users responsibility to have backup.

It has very IOPS (Input Output per sec). 


------------ EFS :

Elastic File System : Network attached file system.

EFS is wrapped around security group and then can be linked to multiple EC2 instance over multiple Availability Zones (AZ).

Note : It is only compatible with linux based AMI.

File system scales automatically and it's pay per use.

It is multi - tiered : can be setup based on the frequency of access.


EFS can be used as web server etc (for low latency) and image proocessing (higher latency).

  