------ VPC (Virtual Private Cloud) Fundamentals :

private network to deploy our regional resources.

VPC is at region level.

Subnets :
  Partitions within VPC.  
  Subnet is AZ level.
  
  Public Subnet is accessible from the internet.
  Private Subnet is not accessible from the internet.
  
We use Route tables within VPC to decide how network flows between different subnets (e.g. from public subnet to private subnet).


VPC Flow Diagram :

AWS cloud consists of region.
Region consists of VPC.

VPC consists of subnets (confined to AZ).

each subnet can have at most 1 public subnet.
subnet is comprised of EC2 instances.  

VPC CIDR : It is basically range of IPs available for subnet. 10.0.0.0/16 (https://www.techtarget.com/searchnetworking/definition/CIDR)


Internet Gateway and NAT Gateway : 

Internet gateway is defined in VPC , public subnets connect to Internet Gateway and Internet gateway in turn communicates with Internet and vice versa.

NAT Gateway is a way for private subnets to connect to Internet, NAT gateway is configured in public subnet.
so private subnet EC2 instance connects to NAT gateway defined in public subnet which in turn talks to Internet gateway.


----- Network ACL and Security Groups :

NACL is at public subnet level which allows or denies traffic to our downstream EC2.

NACL is basically firewall which operates only on IP level.

NACL operates at Subnet level.

Security group is attached to an EC2 or ENI (Elastic Network Interface).
It operates both on IP as well as other security group.

Note : By default, EC2 instance is created within default VPC which has default NACL which allows all incoming/outgoing traffic.



------ VPC flow logs :

All internet activity within our VPC are logged here and it can be exported to AWS cloudwatch etc.

------ VPC Peering :

VPC Peering is the process of creating connection between two VPC's which can be in different region, same region, different aws account anywhere.

It gives the illusion that they are in the same VPC.

Imp: Subnets should not have overlapping CIDR otherwise it will be impossible to figure out which subnet belongs to which VPC.
     So, this is prohibited.
	 
We can create VPC peering between two VPCs and is not transistive i.e. let's say we have VPC A and VPC B peered and also VPC A and VPC C peered
then it won't allow VPC C to automatically connect to VPC B , we need to separate peer connection if that is required.


------ VPC endpoint :

endpoint allows us to connect to AWS services using private network instead of public WWW network.

Note : All AWS services are public.

Flow is : VPC private subnet EC2 -> VPC endpoint gateway -> AWS resource.

Site to Site VPN :
To connect our office premise to cloud.
Site to Site VPN is encrypted and connection is made on internet.	 



-------- Three tier architecture :


Client ----- > Public Subnet (ELB) ----> Private Subnet(EC2 instances) -----> Data Subnet (RDS etc on another private subnet).